# Workshop: Multiplier Event 1

- Date: Thursday, October 27, 2022
- Time: 9:00-14:00 EEST
- Place: Room PR105, [PRECIS Center](https://goo.gl/maps/cBXziUixXDXNfxko6), Faculty of Automatic Control and Computer Science, University POLITEHNICA of Bucharest

## Initial Presentation: 9:00 - 10:30

The team and community members will host talks regarding the purpose and aims of Open Education Hub.
We will go over the following topics:

- Overview of the project ([Răzvan Deaconescu](/docs/community/team#răzvan-deaconescu))
- Methodology ([Răzvan Nițu](/docs/community/team#răzvan-nițu))
- Content ([Teodor Duțu](/docs/community/team#teodor-duțu))
- Infrastructure ([Sergiu Weisz](/docs/community/team#sergiu-weisz))
- Community ([Liza Babu](/docs/community/team#liza-babu))

Each talk aims to take 10-20 minutes, followed by 5-10 minutes for questions and discussions.

## Coffee Break: 10:30 - 11:00

This will be an opportunity for more in-depth and informal discussions regarding the topics presented so far.

## Demo of Open Education Hub: 11:00 - 11:30

In this part we will showcase how to create a repository under the [Open Education Hub organization](https://github.com/open-education-hub/) using our templates and how to contribute to it via pull requests and in accordance to [the Open Education Hub methodology](https://github.com/open-education-hub/methodology).

## Practical Workshop: 11:30 - 13:00

Participants will clone and experiment with our first class: [Operating Systems](https://github.com/open-education-hub/operating-systems).
They will build the lecture slides, run the demos and practice exercises and provide us with feedback based on them.
For this, we ask participants to bring their own laptops.
(Wireless) Internet access will be provided.

We also encourage participants to prepare a few ideas about the repository they might want to create at some point within Open Education Hub.
Please consider topics such as:

- general theme and subject of your repository
- main ideas / points you would like to deliver to future students

During the workshop, participants will put their ideas into practice and take the first steps towards having a full-fledged class that uses modern technology for efficient teaching.

## Open Discussion over Lunch: 13:00 - 14:00

Lunch is on the Open Education Hub team.
As always, lunch will be a pretext for more open-ended discussions regarding the Open Education Hub project and the guests' further involvement with it. 
